It is used to format. layout of web page. It also give aesthetic to a webpage
TYPES
• Internal CSS.
External CSS.
Inline CSS.
INTERNAL CSS:- (Embedded CSS)
It can be done using <style> tag within the HTML docament. In head section)
Attributes are always given in Starting tag
INLINE CSS
It applies styling to individual HTML element. It is written in attributes of starting tag.
Style. Css link it files and then. to inder file in order to use it. Mosto I can do enternal CSS by giveng class in div and then that a class name is used to stlye style it.
LINK TAG
This tag is used to attach CSS file to index.html document. It has no ending tag like br tag
href 15 It path or reference. is the URL of page
PROPERTIES:-
0 Opacity
decide com Web developer can how much user can or blus image. By default its value is 100%
FILTER
Defines visual effects ike blur, contrast gray scale. will turn colour image in gray.
HEIGHT
Defines height.
WIDTH
Filter has Ji Re many functions blus, brightness, contrast, Sepia, saturate, invert contrast elc
BORDER-
Define border with solid, double, dotted etc attribute
BORDER RADIUS
trol sharpness of border Control of image. At 50% image become circle
INDEXING Decide order of multiple things like. I can change order according to desixe
MARGIN: Create space around
element. It can go in all. directions like margin-top etc. oad "auto" is used to horizontally center elements. like element will take its space and remaining. Space will split equally between left and right margins
PADDING-
Define Space b/w an element's border and element Content.
TEXT DECORATION-
It specifies dis-de cosachon. odded to a text like "hover" is used to select elements. when you put your mouse over them. It gives ives transition to elements. Eig under line, none etc
1)Favi-icons
It is a small image like icons placed next to tent like Inent to location. But I will have to link library in head. Eu Font awesome. Iibrary
Navbar is always designed in unordered list.
Purple color indicates the Visited link.
Blue color indicates active link. the
"pa or pixel is smallest unit
If I don't have service then I can from library by internet copy all code and make link of icon. CSS and opaste it in this file name So I can internet.// display favicons with od
By default "block" R but by styling display we 1+ Ocan shows change in
Hierarchy are Ts made when there ma in her tags.
MEDIA QUERY
It is used to make my website responsive for any device. We Cari contro how our website will look in other devices like android. iphone, laptop.
In media screen specif max or min specify Width
FLEX:
Create a website layout. Specifically for one layout (Yow/column). dimensional
Flex-direction-reverses
5 Flex-direction:-
16 Flex-grow-
It is used to take multple in div. Spaces
Flen-wrap:-/No wrap=
(18) Flex - Shrink:-
(19) Flex-order:-
: Parameter of Display:
20) GRID- used to handle two dimensional laysuut
21) Grid-template-column: (or Row)
22) Column-grap:-
23) Row-gap
24) Grid row:
25) Grid column:-
20) Grid-row-start-
27) Grid-row-end
Gradients:- To show multiple colour patterns.
TYPES
LINEAR
Goes up/down/left/right/diagonally.
RADIAL:- Defined by their center.
Conic: Rotated around a center point-
29) Box- Shadow Gives Shadow to image.
30) Justify Content-
Align Oflex Hems at center.
PARAMETERS
31 Align-items.
< >
• A space around
Space between
stretch
flex start/end.
ANIMATION
Transform html object into another Styling phase. I can change stylles
32) Animation-name:-
33) Animation- duration
Defines how long an animation should take to complete. Defaal value
34) Animation-delay:
specifies delay for start of an animation.
35) Animation-timin -timing function of specifies speed curve. of on animation
Parameters
•ease-in (first 50% slow then next 50% faster) ease-out (frost reverse) ease-in-out (25% slow, mid 50%. fast, 25% slow)
36) Animation:-
In order to define all previous function at once.
37) Transition
View the process/pattern of transformation ..I can contral animation speed while changmy CSS properties.
38) Transformation:- Applies 2D or 3D transformation to an element. It work in two or three dimensional space.
Difference b/w Transform 4 transition
In transition, I when animation works it comes back to its original position.. While in transformation animation doesn't go form back to its original
Parameters of Transformations-
39) Skew (st-angle, y-angle):
Defines a 20 Skew transformation along the X and Y our mage axis. It stretch out
40) Rotate:
Defines a rotation. It can be 20 or 3D. It rotate an image. Its unit is "deg"
41) Scale
used to make our object larges or smaller. Like scale (1, 2); will make double the my y-axis of object Osize of x-anus
42) Translate: used
to nad move our object up/down/left/right or back and forth. It moven my animation on screen. Its unit is "PX"
43) Matrix
we can emerge/combine two properties of transformation together.
44) Display-none- It removes the
element from document and it doesn ot take any space.
45) Display-hiddens
It hides the element but it still takes up space in document.
